## Adding Properties to Existing Class and Creating Migration Files

This user story involved adding a couple of properties to a class that is used for tracking student job applications.  We added "heard back" and "interview" columns as bools.

### Properties Added:

'''cs
[DisplayName("Heard Back")]
public bool HeardBack { get; set; }
[DisplayName("Interview")]
public bool Interview { get; set; }
'''

Note that while Interview doesn't really require a DisplayName because it's the same as the property name, I included it to make the code more readable and consistent with the rest of the properties in the model.  Once they were added, I needed to create a migration file.  To do so, first I built the application with my changes.  Then, I pulled up the Package Manager console and typed: "Add-Migration JPApplicationAddHeardBackAndInterview".  This automatically creates a migration file with the name "JPApplicationAddHeardBackAndInterview", long but precise.  Now the database may be updated with a "Update-Database" command in the PM console.

This wasn't a particularly challenging story to tackle it turns out, but I had never dealt with Code-First Migrations before and I wanted to learn more about it.  The class generated by VS was this:

### Auto-Generated Migration Code:
'''cs
    public partial class JPApplicationAddHeardBackAndInterview : DbMigration
    {
        public override void Up()
        {
            AddColumn("dbo.JPApplications", "HeardBack", c => c.Boolean(nullable: false));
            AddColumn("dbo.JPApplications", "Interview", c => c.Boolean(nullable: false));
        }
        
        public override void Down()
        {
            DropColumn("dbo.JPApplications", "Interview");
            DropColumn("dbo.JPApplications", "HeardBack");
        }
    }
'''

Anything in the Up() function is what is added when a migration is run, and the Down() is what is run when a rollback of a migration is requested.  But you don't even really need to know that if you just let VS auto-generate your files!  This story was very useful for me because I had been wondering about Migrations, and it was slightly intimidating before I learned more about it.  Anything that fiddles with a database is something you need to be careful with, and luckily VS made it nice and easy.